content/home/phd.md, before:

+++
# A Demo section created with the Blank widget.
# Any elements can be added in the body: https://wowchemy.com/docs/writing-markdown-latex/
# Add more sections by duplicating this file and customizing to your requirements.

widget = "blank"  # See https://wowchemy.com/docs/page-builder/
headless = true  # This file represents a page section.
active = true  # Activate this widget? true/false
weight = 30  # Order that this section will appear.

title = "Joining the lab as a graduate student"
subtitle = ""

[design]
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  columns = "1"

[design.background]
  # Apply a background color, gradient, or image.
  #   Uncomment (by removing `#`) an option to apply it.
  #   Choose a light or dark text color by setting `text_color_light`.
  #   Any HTML color name or Hex value is valid.

  # Background color.
  # color = "navy"

  # Background gradient.
  # gradient_start = "DarkGreen"
  # gradient_end = "ForestGreen"

  # Background image.
  # image = "image.jpg"  # Name of image in `static/media/`.
  # image_darken = 0.6  # Darken the image? Range 0-1 where 0 is transparent and 1 is opaque.
  # image_size = "cover"  #  Options are `cover` (default), `contain`, or `actual` size.
  # image_position = "center"  # Options include `left`, `center` (default), or `right`.
  # image_parallax = true  # Use a fun parallax-like fixed background effect? true/false

  # Text color (true=light or false=dark).
  # text_color_light = true

[design.spacing]
  # Customize the section spacing. Order is top, right, bottom, left.
  padding = ["20px", "0", "20px", "0"]

[advanced]
 # Custom CSS.
 css_style = ""

 # CSS class.
 css_class = ""
+++

{{% callout note %}}
There are several **fully funded summer internships** available to join my group for the Summer of 2023 via the [MITACS Globalink Research Internship](https://www.mitacs.ca/en/programs/globalink/globalink-research-internship) program.
As an intern you will work on issues relating to systems monitoring, observability, and intrusion detection.
You will be joining the [Systopia Research Lab](https://systopia.cs.ubc.ca/) and will work closely with current graduate students and other interns.

Project IDs: 29177 and 29683.

You must **apply on [MITACS website](https://www.mitacs.ca/en/programs/globalink/globalink-research-internship) before September 22, 2022**.
Please, review details of the application process carefully.
{{% /callout %}}

I am looking to work with students from all background (first generation students, and students from underrepresented and marginalized groups are encouraged to apply) and at all level (undergraduate students, master’s students, and PhD students).
Please, visit the prospective applicant page on [UBC website](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-computer-science) and on [the CS website](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/prospective).
You can also find information about: [financial support](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/prospective/funding/financial), [application fee waivers](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/application-admission/online-application-fee), [minimum requirements for admission into graduate studies](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/admissions/eligibility), and [minimum English proficiency requirements](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/admissions/application-components-required-documents/english-proficiency-requirement).
You may also look at [this page](https://tfjmp.org/post/working-with-me/) which describes my expectations when working with graduate students.
Finally, you should have a look at [UBC cost calculator](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/tuition-fees-cost-living/cost-living#calctable).
Don't hesitate to get in touch with me via [e-mail](mailto:tfjmp@cs.ubc.ca) but, please, do read the following suggestions before doing so.

**Note:** The Master of Science in Computer Science at UBC is a research degree. Students are expected to conduct research, submit papers for publication,
and eventually write a thesis. You can find more information on the university [website](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-computer-science). While applications are not reviewed with the same expectations as those of PhD applicants, you should clearly demonstrate you
have an interest and the capacity to conduct research.

## A few facts

* You must apply [online](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-computer-science).
* Do check the [application deadline](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/admissions) on UBC’s website.
* The department starts processing applications in January for the next academic year.
* Students are admitted by the department, not by individual faculty members.
* Master and PhD applications are reviewed by the same committee. The [PhD track](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/prospective-grads/grad-programs/phd-track-msc-program) is ideal for candidates who ultimately want to do a PhD, but do not feel ready yet.
* Even if you are well fitted for my group, I cannot guarantee admission.

## Before contacting me

* Have a look at my [publications](https://tfjmp.org/publication/).
* Identify matching interests.
* Understand that I will not supervise students outside of my area of expertise.
* Find a set of papers which aligns with your interests.
* Read the abstracts.
* Read at least one paper in full.
* **Only contact me if you need further precision/information**. If you are planning to apply, please, do so through UBC system. I cannot process applications sent via e-mail.

## What to send when contacting me?

* CV/resume
* Transcripts
* Why do you want to work with me? (one paragraph)
* Why do you want to work on this topic? (one paragraph)
* Which paper(s) did you read and why did you find it interesting? (one paragraph)
* Previous research experience (if any)
* What research would you like to pursue during your degree?
* Summary of research work you have conducted.

## What to address in your statement of intent?

* Check the guidelines on the [department website](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/statement-of-intent)
* An SoI must address the three following points: 1) show you know what is research, 2) describe the research you have done, and 3) discuss what research you would like to do.
* The SoI is **not** about your life story.
* The relationship between a student and their advisor is an extremely important one and it will hopefully last for years
* The commonality of interest should be clear from your statement
* Listing half a dozen potential advisors from very different areas is most probably detrimental to your application
* On the other hand, co-supervision is common and can be very positive
* Therefore, link clearly potential advisors to your experience and your aspirations
* Everything else being equal, an applicant that understands and shows **why** they should be working with a specific advisor are more likely to be successful
* This is my personal opinion and may not be universally true

Commit message:

added link to eligible countries

content/home/phd.md, after:

+++
# A Demo section created with the Blank widget.
# Any elements can be added in the body: https://wowchemy.com/docs/writing-markdown-latex/
# Add more sections by duplicating this file and customizing to your requirements.

widget = "blank"  # See https://wowchemy.com/docs/page-builder/
headless = true  # This file represents a page section.
active = true  # Activate this widget? true/false
weight = 30  # Order that this section will appear.

title = "Joining the lab as a graduate student"
subtitle = ""

[design]
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  columns = "1"

[design.background]
  # Apply a background color, gradient, or image.
  #   Uncomment (by removing `#`) an option to apply it.
  #   Choose a light or dark text color by setting `text_color_light`.
  #   Any HTML color name or Hex value is valid.

  # Background color.
  # color = "navy"

  # Background gradient.
  # gradient_start = "DarkGreen"
  # gradient_end = "ForestGreen"

  # Background image.
  # image = "image.jpg"  # Name of image in `static/media/`.
  # image_darken = 0.6  # Darken the image? Range 0-1 where 0 is transparent and 1 is opaque.
  # image_size = "cover"  #  Options are `cover` (default), `contain`, or `actual` size.
  # image_position = "center"  # Options include `left`, `center` (default), or `right`.
  # image_parallax = true  # Use a fun parallax-like fixed background effect? true/false

  # Text color (true=light or false=dark).
  # text_color_light = true

[design.spacing]
  # Customize the section spacing. Order is top, right, bottom, left.
  padding = ["20px", "0", "20px", "0"]

[advanced]
 # Custom CSS.
 css_style = ""

 # CSS class.
 css_class = ""
+++

{{% callout note %}}
There are several **fully funded summer internships** available to join my group for the Summer of 2023 via the [MITACS Globalink Research Internship](https://www.mitacs.ca/en/programs/globalink/globalink-research-internship) program.
You can find the list of eligible countries and institutions [here](https://www.mitacs.ca/en/globalink-research-internship-2023-eligible-universities).
As an intern you will work on issues relating to systems monitoring, observability, and intrusion detection.
You will be joining the [Systopia Research Lab](https://systopia.cs.ubc.ca/) and will work closely with current graduate students and other interns.

Project IDs: 29177 and 29683.

You must **apply on [MITACS website](https://www.mitacs.ca/en/programs/globalink/globalink-research-internship) before September 22, 2022**.
Please, review details of the application process carefully.
{{% /callout %}}

I am looking to work with students from all background (first generation students, and students from underrepresented and marginalized groups are encouraged to apply) and at all level (undergraduate students, master’s students, and PhD students).
Please, visit the prospective applicant page on [UBC website](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-computer-science) and on [the CS website](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/prospective).
You can also find information about: [financial support](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/prospective/funding/financial), [application fee waivers](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/application-admission/online-application-fee), [minimum requirements for admission into graduate studies](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/admissions/eligibility), and [minimum English proficiency requirements](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/admissions/application-components-required-documents/english-proficiency-requirement).
You may also look at [this page](https://tfjmp.org/post/working-with-me/) which describes my expectations when working with graduate students.
Finally, you should have a look at [UBC cost calculator](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/tuition-fees-cost-living/cost-living#calctable).
Don't hesitate to get in touch with me via [e-mail](mailto:tfjmp@cs.ubc.ca) but, please, do read the following suggestions before doing so.

**Note:** The Master of Science in Computer Science at UBC is a research degree. Students are expected to conduct research, submit papers for publication,
and eventually write a thesis. You can find more information on the university [website](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-computer-science). While applications are not reviewed with the same expectations as those of PhD applicants, you should clearly demonstrate you
have an interest and the capacity to conduct research.

## A few facts

* You must apply [online](https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-computer-science).
* Do check the [application deadline](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/admissions) on UBC’s website.
* The department starts processing applications in January for the next academic year.
* Students are admitted by the department, not by individual faculty members.
* Master and PhD applications are reviewed by the same committee. The [PhD track](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/prospective-grads/grad-programs/phd-track-msc-program) is ideal for candidates who ultimately want to do a PhD, but do not feel ready yet.
* Even if you are well fitted for my group, I cannot guarantee admission.

## Before contacting me

* Have a look at my [publications](https://tfjmp.org/publication/).
* Identify matching interests.
* Understand that I will not supervise students outside of my area of expertise.
* Find a set of papers which aligns with your interests.
* Read the abstracts.
* Read at least one paper in full.
* **Only contact me if you need further precision/information**. If you are planning to apply, please, do so through UBC system. I cannot process applications sent via e-mail.

## What to send when contacting me?

* CV/resume
* Transcripts
* Why do you want to work with me? (one paragraph)
* Why do you want to work on this topic? (one paragraph)
* Which paper(s) did you read and why did you find it interesting? (one paragraph)
* Previous research experience (if any)
* What research would you like to pursue during your degree?
* Summary of research work you have conducted.

## What to address in your statement of intent?

* Check the guidelines on the [department website](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/statement-of-intent)
* An SoI must address the three following points: 1) show you know what is research, 2) describe the research you have done, and 3) discuss what research you would like to do.
* The SoI is **not** about your life story.
* The relationship between a student and their advisor is an extremely important one and it will hopefully last for years
* The commonality of interest should be clear from your statement
* Listing half a dozen potential advisors from very different areas is most probably detrimental to your application
* On the other hand, co-supervision is common and can be very positive
* Therefore, link clearly potential advisors to your experience and your aspirations
* Everything else being equal, an applicant that understands and shows **why** they should be working with a specific advisor are more likely to be successful
* This is my personal opinion and may not be universally true
