content/post/2022-538P/index.md, before:

---
title: '[538P] Topic in Computer Systems: Systems Security'
subtitle: ''

# Summary for listings and search engines
summary: Congratulations! You have been shortlisted and you will soon be interviewing.

# Link this post with a project
projects: []

# Date published
date: "2021-12-10T00:00:00Z"

# Date updated
lastmod: "2021-12-10T00:00:00Z"

# Is this an unpublished draft?
draft: false

# Show this page in the Featured widget?
featured: false

# Featured image
# Place an image named `featured.jpg/png` in this page's folder and customize its options here.
image:
  caption: 'Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/CpkOjOcXdUY)'
  focal_point: ""
  placement: 2
  preview_only: false

authors:
- admin

tags:
- Academic

categories:
- Application
---

## Course Description

## Class format

This is a seminar type class.
Every class we will discuss a different paper.
I have selected a mix of recent and older papers.
There will be two presenters during each class.
Each presenter will play a different role: the role of the Advocate and the role of the Critic.
The Advocate should play a role similar to that of the original authors and try to sell the work to the audience.
On the other hand, the Critic while remaining objective should towards the end of the presentation highlight the flows of the paper and convince the audience that the paper is no good.
Each presentation will last 12-14 minutes after which we will take a short break (5-10 minutes) before starting an in class discussion about the paper.
You should expect to present at least 2 or 3 times during the term depending on the number of students registered.

In order to do well during your presentation, you should remember to stick to your role (Advocate or Critic).
Further, you do not need to spend too much time explaining the basic of the paper, everyone in class will have already read it.
What add value to the presentation is your opinion and the insights you can extract from the paper! This what you should focus on.

## Schedule & Reading List

| Day  | Paper  | Presenter  |
|------------|--------|------------|
| Jan 9 Mon  | Introduction - Course Overview - Reading a Paper <br/> Reading (no report): How to read a paper  |   |
| Jan 11 Wed | Design and Implementation of the TrustedBSD MAC Framework |   |
| Jan 16 Mon  | Linux Security Modules: General Security Support for the Linux Kernel |   |
| Jan 18 Wed | Analyzing the Overhead of File Protection by Linux Security Modules  |   |
| Jan 23 Mon  | Security Namespace: Making Linux Security Frameworks Available to Containers |   |
| Jan 25 Wed | Trustworthy whole-system provenance for the linux kernel |   |
| Jan 30 Mon  |   |   |
| Feb 1 Wed | Kitsune: An Ensemble of Autoencoders for Online Network Intrusion Detection  |   |
| Jan 6 Mon  | DeepAID: Interpreting and Improving Deep Learning-based Anomaly Detection in Security Applications |   |
| Feb 8 Wed | Network intrusion detection: Evasion, traffic normalization, and end-to-end protocol semantics  |   |
| Feb 13 Mon  | Evasion attacks against machine learning at test time |   |
| Feb 15 Wed | Evading Classifiers by Morphing in the Dark  |   |
| Feb 20 Mon  | Midterm  |   |
| Feb 22 Wed | Midterm  |   |
| Feb 27 Mon  | Automated whitebox fuzz testing. |   |
| Mar 1 Wed |  kafl: Hardware-assisted feedback fuzzing for {OS} kernels |   |
| Mar 6 Mon  | Hfl: Hybrid fuzzing on the linux kernel |   |
| Mar 8 Wed | SyzVegas: Beating Kernel Fuzzing Odds with Reinforcement Learning |   |
| Mar 13 Mon  | K-Miner: Uncovering Memory Corruption in Linux  |   |
| Mar 15 Wed |   |   |
| Mar 20 Mon  | KCoFI: Complete control-flow integrity for commodity operating system kernels  |   |
| Mar 22 Wed | Software fault isolation with API integrity and multi-principal modules |   |
| Mar 27 Mon  | LXDs: Towards isolation of kernel subsystems  |   |
| Mar 29 Wed | xmp: selective memory protection for kernel and user space |   |
| Apr 3 Mon  | CURE: A Security Architecture with CUstomizable and Resilient Enclaves |   |
| Apr 5 Wed | RedLeaf: Isolation and Communication in a Safe Operating System |   |
| Apr 10 Mon  | Project Presentation |   |
| Apr 12 Wed | Project Presentation |   |

Commit message:

change to course content + change to PhD recruitment

content/post/2022-538P/index.md, after:

---
title: '[538P] Topic in Computer Systems: Systems Security (2022-2023)'
subtitle: ''

# Summary for listings and search engines
summary: Congratulations! You have been shortlisted and you will soon be interviewing.

# Link this post with a project
projects: []

# Date published
date: "2021-12-10T00:00:00Z"

# Date updated
lastmod: "2021-12-10T00:00:00Z"

# Is this an unpublished draft?
draft: false

# Show this page in the Featured widget?
featured: false

# Featured image
# Place an image named `featured.jpg/png` in this page's folder and customize its options here.
image:
  caption: 'Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/CpkOjOcXdUY)'
  focal_point: ""
  placement: 2
  preview_only: false

authors:
- admin

tags:
- Academic

categories:
- Application
---

## Course Description

The goal of this course is to expose students to a variety of topics in Systems Security.
Security inherently touch on all areas of computer science.
Therefore, this course was designed as a *breadth* course, addressed to all students in the department.
The core idea underlying the course is to bring together a diversity of view points to generate interesting discussions.
On the other hand, we could also easily design a *depth* course focused on any of the topics we will discuss.
The project component is the opportunity for students to explore one of those topics in more depth.
Students are free (and encouraged) to apply their expertise (ML, PL, HCI, architecture etc.) to solve a specific Systems Security problem.
Some of the papers have been selected explicitly to highlight the interdisciplinary nature of Systems Security and to showcase
how diverse perspectives are welcomed and appreciated.

## Class format

This is a seminar type class.
Every class we will discuss a different paper.
I have selected a mix of recent and older papers.
There will be two presenters during each class.
Each presenter will play a different role: the role of the Advocate and the role of the Critic.
The Advocate should play a role similar to that of the original authors and try to sell the work to the audience.
On the other hand, the Critic while remaining objective should towards the end of the presentation highlight the flows of the paper and convince the audience that the paper is no good.
Each presentation will last 12-14 minutes after which we will take a short break (5-10 minutes) before starting an in class discussion about the paper.
You should expect to present at least 2 or 3 times during the term depending on the number of students registered.

In order to do well during your presentation, you should remember to stick to your role (Advocate or Critic).
Further, you do not need to spend too much time explaining the basic of the paper, everyone in class will have already read it.
What add value to the presentation is your opinion and the insights you can extract from the paper! This what you should focus on.

## Schedule & Reading List

| Day  | Paper  | Presenters  |
|------------|--------|------------|
| Jan 9 Mon  | Introduction - Course Overview - Reading a Paper <br/> Reading (no report): How to read a paper  |   |
| Jan 11 Wed | Linux Security Modules: General Security Support for the Linux Kernel<br/>Optional reading (no report): Design and Implementation of the TrustedBSD MAC Framework  |   |
| Jan 16 Mon  | Analyzing the Overhead of File Protection by Linux Security Modules |   |
| Jan 18 Wed |  Security Namespace: Making Linux Security Frameworks Available to Containers |   |
| Jan 23 Mon  | Demons in the Shared Kernel: Abstract Resource Attacks Against OS-level Virtualization |   |
| Jan 25 Wed | Trustworthy whole-system provenance for the linux kernel |   |
| Jan 30 Mon  |  |   |
| Feb 1 Wed |  |   |
| Jan 6 Mon  | Kitsune: An Ensemble of Autoencoders for Online Network Intrusion Detection |   |
| Feb 8 Wed | DeepAID: Interpreting and Improving Deep Learning-based Anomaly Detection in Security Applications |   |
| Feb 13 Mon  | Network intrusion detection: Evasion, traffic normalization, and end-to-end protocol semantics |   |
| Feb 15 Wed | Evading Classifiers by Morphing in the Dark <br />Optional reading (no report): Evasion attacks against machine learning at test time |   |
| Feb 20 Mon  | Midterm  |   |
| Feb 22 Wed | Midterm  |   |
| Feb 27 Mon  | Automated whitebox fuzz testing |   |
| Mar 1 Wed | AFL++: Combining Incremental Steps of Fuzzing Research |   |
| Mar 6 Mon  | kafl: Hardware-assisted feedback fuzzing for {OS} kernels |   |
| Mar 8 Wed | Hfl: Hybrid fuzzing on the linux kernel |   |
| Mar 13 Mon  | SyzVegas: Beating Kernel Fuzzing Odds with Reinforcement Learning  |   |
| Mar 15 Wed | Control-Flow Integrity |   |
| Mar 20 Mon  | KCoFI: Complete control-flow integrity for commodity operating system kernels |   |
| Mar 22 Wed | Software fault isolation with API integrity and multi-principal modules |   |
| Mar 27 Mon  | LXDs: Towards isolation of kernel subsystems |   |
| Mar 29 Wed | xmp: selective memory protection for kernel and user space |   |
| Apr 3 Mon  | CURE: A Security Architecture with CUstomizable and Resilient Enclaves |   |
| Apr 5 Wed | RedLeaf: Isolation and Communication in a Safe Operating System |   |
| Apr 10 Mon  | Project Presentation |   |
| Apr 12 Wed | Project Presentation |   |
